# CS-360-Mobile-Architect-and-Programming

For this course, I developed a simple app that allows users to track their weight over a period of time. The app consists of two screens: one that enables the user to log in or create an account and another that allows the user to manipulate their weight data. I designed the screen layouts with a minimalistic approach so that they would be intuitive to use and quick to develop within the given timeframe. If I were to release the app, I would spend more time improving the graphics and typography to make the app look more professional.

When coding the app, I had to spend a lot of time researching and reading through the zyBook. I also had to learn how to write code in Kotlin since I had never used that language before. Regardless, I followed my usual approach of implementing one feature at a time, beginning with the essential core features and working my way down the list to the less important features.

As I developed each feature, I would consistently run my code to ensure that it functioned as I expected. I encountered many hiccups along the way, but I was able to navigate through them by troubleshooting and debugging. I also tested the code by attempting to use the app in ways that weren't expected. For example, I would enter invalid data into the entry fields, such as letters or spaces, into a field that only expected numbers. Sometimes, this caused the program to crash because the string data could not be stored in a variable cast as an integer, so I had to add code to validate input data.

There were many parts of the development process where I had to think outside the box and innovate solutions. One part that stands out to me was deciding how to set up the screens, menus, navigation, and dialog boxes. Originally, I planned on using screens to prompt users for input data, but eventually, I decided to use dialog popup boxes instead to reduce the complexity of switching between so many screens.

This app was a challenge for me to develop even though I have had prior experience developing desktop and web apps because there were so many unique "gotchas" that applied to mobile apps. However, I felt proud about how I developed the RecyclerView component that allowed a user to view their weight data via a scrolling list. To make this work successfully, I had to set up the RecyclerView component and load it with the user's weight data from the database. I also had to create an XML layout file for each item in the menu. Then, I had to write code to update the list when a user added, updated, or deleted a weight in the list. These changes also had to be reflected in the database. Completing this part of the app was the most satisfying part of development for me.
